**Week 1**

I’d define ‘E-Literature’ as any kind of writing that has to be read digitally to fully experience it. Like I wouldn’t say it includes e-books, since they’re digitised versions of text that is already or could otherwise be in print form. Anything that’s generative or playable or features stuff like pictures moving wouldn’t be the same if it was. I do think what I understand to be e-literature will change across the unit once I start branching out into more unconventional work.

I got into Shade, which I think relies on the digital medium the most out of all the pieces. That’s what made it the most endearing to me—it was pretty much like playing a game. I appreciated, as well, that despite how user-driver it is, the creator managed to maintain a really clear creative voice. What really makes it stand out from more standard literature was that there’s an element of difficulty to it, in that users have to do a lot of trial and error to progress, which there isn’t necessarily in the linear experience of reading a book. So while the lows were definitely lower, the satisfaction I got from picking the right option and progressing made the highs higher, and gave me a sense of a more personal achievement.

I'm really keen on e-literature as a means to present stories in new ways. You can be more ambitions with visual elements and use a wider scope in terms of technology, but also use certain tools to make what you're trying to communicate get across better. Reader interactivity is another exciting avenue. Seems like digital stuff could be more engaging and facilitate a kind of collaboration between author and reader. Like my playthrough of Shade is a text in itself, and would differ from basically everyone else's.

